{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 A \'a0GIRL of nineteen had just arrived in New York, with one fat bag. She turned into the curving silence of Harrow Street, which is only three minutes\'92 walk from Washington Square, but some trick to find. Several times she changed her bag from one hand to the other, sometimes putting it down and stepping around it, until she came to a door with a room-to-rent sign. This house was painted fresh green, the only thing that distinguished it from all the other houses of the block, except the number, which was Fifty-four.\
\'93Here goes me!\'94 she said, starting up the stone steps.\
She rang. The door before her didn\'92t open, but the basement door below did. A woman\'92s voice called, \'93Yes?\'94 in rising inflection.\
The girl trailed her bag down to the walk and around the railing to the lower entrance where a dark-faced woman stood, regarding her with almost concerned[2] attention\'97dark eyes that saw too much, the girl decided. The face was un-American, but its foreign suggestion was vague. It might even have been East Indian. If her skin was natively white, it had certainly known the darkening of much sunlight. As the girl drew near she sensed a curious freshness from the woman; something hard to name, having to do with the garments as well as the shadowy olive skin.\
\'93I want to rent a room\'97a small back room. I saw your sign on the door.\'94\
\'93I have a room, but it hasn\'92t much air,\'94 the woman said.\
\'93I don\'92t need much air\'97\'97\'94\
\'93Come and we\'92ll look. It is on the upper floor, but it is not quite back. Leave your bag here in the hall.\'94\
It was eleven in the morning, but the smell of coffee was in the dark basement corridor, and laughing voices were heard behind the shut door to the right. A man\'92s voice said in a stimulated tone:\
\'93Believe me, and I\'92ve been around, Miss Claes is the deepest-dyed sport I\'92ve ever met. You could drag her the length of Harrow Street and she\'92d come up fresh from the laundry\'97\'97\'94\
\'93That reminds me, I\'92m going to start a laundry,\'94 a woman\'92s voice announced.\
\'93I\'92m going to start something myself\'97\'97\'94 came another voice.\
The girl, following through the corridor, heard a little breathless sort of chuckle from the woman ahead[3] of her on the dark stairs. The place smelled like a shut room when it rains\'97a cigaretty admixture.\
They climbed. The next hall was spooky with gaslight; the next was gay with frying sausages. They climbed. The next was the one, and it smelled of paint\'97the same green paint as on the outside of the house\'97on one of the doors and doorframes, but the wood was plainly charred under the paint.\
\'93We had a fire, but we put it out with wash water before the engines got here, soapy water.\'94\
The girl had a picture of threshing soap about in pails of water before applying it to the flames.\
\'93This is the one,\'94 the woman said, unlocking the next to last room from the back on the left. \'93All the rest are filled just now. Most of my lodgers never leave, only as they strike it rich\'97\'97\'94\
\'93Do they often strike it rich?\'94\
\'93Oh, yes, dear. New York is quite the most magic place in America\'97something for every one who comes, if he only stays on.\'94\
They had crowded into the little room.\
\'93This is fine,\'94 the girl said. \'93This is what I want. It\'92s just as I saw it.\'94\
\'93You get your water in the hall below,\'94 the woman explained. \'93There is no gas plate, so you will have to bring your coffeepot down to my stove in the basement. The walls are ugly, but I\'92ll see that the cot is clean for you. If the wall of the next house across the area were only painted white, you would get more light.\'94\
[4]The wall spoken of was less than three feet from the window sill.\
\'93What is the price?\'94 the girl asked, with a cough before and after.\
\'93Twelve dollars a month.\'94\
\'93I will pay for a month now,\'94 she said, with a small part of a big out-breath.\
\'93When did you come to New York?\'94 the woman asked.\
\'93This morning.\'94\
\'93First time?\'94\
\'93Yes. From Los Angeles.\'94\
\'93And you have had four nights on the train?\'94\
\'93Six. It was a slow tourist train. I sat up from Chicago\'97\'97\'94\
\'93Have you lived in Los Angeles long?\'94\
\'93Always\'97in and around.\'94\
\'93We don\'92t dare to think of Los Angeles much. To a lot of us here in New York, it\'92s a kind of heaven. Southern California\'97the sea and the mountains and the ten months of sunlight and the cool morning fogs and the ripe figs\'97\'97\'94\
\'93I\'92ve wanted New York like that,\'94 the girl said. \'93I\'92ve wanted New York so badly that I was afraid on the train that it wouldn\'92t stay until I got here\'97\'97\'94\
\'93That\'92s the way to come,\'94 the landlady said. \'93New York would wait for you. Oh, yes, New York waits for your kind. What are you going to do here?\'94\
\'93Write.\'94\
\'93Really?\'94\
[5]The woman sat down on the edge of the cot. Her interest did not seem an affectation. Her figure was thin but lithe. One wouldn\'92t know in these shadows if she were nearer twenty-five or thirty-five. She seemed altogether without haste, smiling easily, but slow to laugh aloud. Her eyes looked startlingly knowing as she lit a cigarette\'97not natural somehow. At the same time in the matchlight her face had looked tired and weathered. Her way of speaking was like an English person, or one educated in England.\
\'93Do you mean stories?\'94 she asked.\
\'93Yes, a book, a long story\'97set in eighteenth-century France.\'94\
\'93But you seem so young.\'94\
\'93I have written for a long time\'97always written.\'94\
\'93How old are you, please?\'94\
\'93Nineteen\'97but I have lived in a writing house always.\'94\
\'93Where is your house? I have been to Los Angeles.\'94\
\'93Back in a canyon near Santa Monica and my father is there now\'97in his slippers. He teaches every one how to write\'97\'97\'94 There was something baleful in the girl\'92s blue eyes, or perhaps it was exhaustion, as she smiled.\
\'93Does he write stories?\'94\
\'93No, metaphysics, but he knows everything\'97\'97\'94\
\'93What is your name?\'94\
\'93Musser\'97Pidge Musser. Not Pidge, really. Pandora[6] is my name, but every one calls me Pidge. My father started it.\'94\
\'93Is his name Adolph Musser?\'94\
In the dimness, the girl\'92s face looked like a blur of white; a little stretched, too, it appeared just now.\
\'93Yes, that\'92s his name,\'94 she said in a hopeless tone. \'93So you know him, too?\'94\
\'93I heard him lecture once.\'94\
\'93I suppose you \'91fell for\'92 him? They all do.\'94\
The woman\'92s black eyes twinkled. \'93The lecture was on cosmic consciousness,\'94 she said. \'93I remember distinctly that Mr. Musser outlined four paths of approach.\'94\
\'93Yes, the mystical, the occult, the mathematical, and the artistic. Did he talk in bare feet?\'94\
\'93Yes, and an Eastern robe.\'94\
\'93That was a camel driver\'92s robe,\'94 said the girl. \'93Oh, I didn\'92t think I\'92d hear of him here.\'94\
\'93You won\'92t. May I call you Pidge?\'94\
\'93Yes, what you like. My father names everything.\'94\
\'93It sounds better than Pandora\'97at least, to me.... I must go down now. A little breakfast party is waiting there. Take off your things. I\'92ll come back soon. I am Miss Claes and I want to come back already.\'94\
Pidge Musser sat almost in the center of her room, but not quite. At least, she sat in the center of the stiff little cot. She could touch two of the walls. The third was across the narrow aisle from the cot. The fourth was the windowed one, which looked as if it[7] were about to be bricked up entirely. That was quite a distance.\
Her room. She was alone. She looked at the door, arose, brought in the key and turned it from the inside. Alone, and this was New York. She could live a month anyway, and write and write on 
\f1\i The Lance of the Rivernais
\f0\i0 . She could be herself and not be told how to live and love and write and bathe and breathe, and change her polarity and promote her spirit and govern her temper and appetites, by a man who was governed by anything but himself.\
New York. She had hardly dared to look at it on the way from the train to Washington Square, where the street car had put her down. She had come to Washington Square because one of the boys who studied with her father had said it was the best place to live in all the big town\'97the cheapest and friendliest and quietest.... It appeared all true, but Miss Claes wasn\'92t like a rooming-house landlady; quite different, in fact, and astonishing.\
\'93I could hear her talk about New York, forever,\'94 Pidge said half aloud, and this was a remark of considerable force from one who had known the maiming of many words.\
Presently she would go out and look at New York again; walk about a bit, keeping a mental string tied to this green house. Besides she had to rent a typewriter, but there was no rush. It was delicious sitting here alone in the gloom of midday, making the place her own, locked in\'97a chance at last to take a look at[8] herself and see what she was made of and think of what she was here for.\
There was a mirror. It wasn\'92t cracked, according to tradition, but its surface had frozen over in a high wind. Everything waved, eternally waved. It gave the sense of air in the room, and made one look mended. Pidge hoped she would never shed tears in that mirror. Once she had caught herself weeping, and she looked so abysmal that she was almost frightened out of the habit. With these waves added\'97\'97 Pidge took off her hat and flipped it over on the cot. Her head didn\'92t look natural, but that wasn\'92t all the mirror\'92s fault. One of the things she had wanted to do for months was to make her hair a shade redder than it was. Of course, she hadn\'92t dared at home, and she couldn\'92t manage it on the train, but there had been six hours to wait in Chicago and a small hotel room that frightened her yet. She had emerged from that room a different shade, so Chicago meant henna and rain and a frightful hotel. It would always be so. She had been against landing in New York one color and then changing. She had wanted to start life new in New York and keep it straight, an absolutely new page, a new book.\
Her reddened hair waved. It made her face look whiter, and brought out a red tint to her wool dress that had been brown as apple-butter before.\
Everything about her was tired. If she took off her new shoes she was afraid she would never get them on again to-day, and she had to think of renting that typewriter. A little later, she sat up straight, because[9] through the wall from the next room back came the buzz of a machine. She listened with a thrill. It stopped and went on\'97unequal stops and buzzes of rapid typing for several minutes; then a long sustained buzz, until a sheet was changed. No commercial typewriting. That was \'93creative\'94 stuff, as her father would say\'97a word she had vowed never to use. At least, some one in there was doing a letter.\
All this was before noon on an October day in the good year of 1913, before anything ever happened to anybody.\
}